Tech on top, ahead of the Trump Chief Summeth. I'm Morgan Braden, and this is your morning call. Good Wednesday morning, little tongue-tied there to start the hour, but let's take a look at U.S. stock futures with the Nasdaq trading in record territory. We did close another record high yesterday. It was very minuscule moves for the major averages yesterday. The S&P coming off its first down day and for albeit fractionally lower. Similar situation for the Dow yesterday. You could see right there on your screen. We have small moves. We're basically flat here pre-market too. The S&P is poised to open higher to the tune of 10 points. The Dow 71 and the Nasdaq really right near the flat line indicated to open higher by about one point right now. Investors' attention remains, though, focused on the AI trade with chip names coming off another banner day. You could see this morning, a lot of green on the screen once again. Okay, I take that back. That was yesterday. A lot of red on the screen this morning as chip stocks take a little bit of a breather here. SK-1x is down about 2%. Micron is down fractionally and Sandisk, Western Digital as well. Let's take a look at the treasury market. What we're seeing with bonds right now because you could see we're basically stable here. It's slightly lower with yields. US 10-year treasury yielding 4.95% fed sensitive to your treasury. 4.76% end of the 30-year 5.29%. We're also watching metals, copper trading at an all-time high. What a move we've seen in copper. We're up about 22% so far in the year but that's after dipping lower at one point earlier in the year as well. You could see copper futures here in the US trading run. $6.83 per pound. Let's take a look at oil too because it's riding its longest daily losing streak in more than a year. WTI crude is down about 6.10% right now. Just below 90 bucks a barrel. What a move lower we've seen here in the last couple of days. Brent crude is up fractionally and it is trading right around $99.50 a barrel. Let's see how Europe and Asia are shaping up. Steve Cedric is in London with the trades there. Steve. Green today. Lower crude prices as well as continue buying off the aforementioned tech sector. Both lifting sentiment but we have some really good PMIs. You've got the US ones coming out later but the you're really good PMIs out this morning. Business activity in the Eurozone accelerated despite all those high oil prices as well. Now in Germany the flash composite rose to 53.8 and that is a big number. We're seeing figures which are the fastest expansion since October last year and in France we grew at our fastest pace of expansion over two years. Really interesting corporate store. I'm just going to very quickly mention Morgan and that's over in Switzerland. Lawmakers in the upper house there have voted in favor of really high capital rules for UBS which would require the bank to back its foreign units with 90% CET1 capital. Now that's a technical term. It's basically common equity tier one capital is the best level of capital and just to give you a bit of context. The top US banks, Goldman's, JP everyone. They have capital levels between say 14 and 17% for this really high level capital. The Swiss UBS which is twice the size by the way of Switzerland in terms of its value. It's being asked to have 90% CET1 for its foreign units. That is a massive blow. What is Sergio Motti say? You'll love this quote. He said we can live with a black eye but two black eyes and a broken nose is too much but that is exactly what these capital levels are going to require to do so. He said that in the magazine. I'm sure you look on a regular basis. The Noia Zusia Zitong Morgan. Back to you. All right. I do enjoy that quote. Wow. That's a wild story. Appreciate it. Steve Stoudrick. Thank you. Two black eyes and a broken nose. Our top story. Chinese state media reporting that President Xi Jinping has departed Beijing for the US state visit. This is Beijing flags. She's top priorities for the face to face and red lines that it says that she will not cross. Let's get to Yunus Yun with more from Beijing. Yunus. Thanks, Morgan. Well, as President Xi heads to DC, the official people's daily has outlined a reminder of what the two leaders agree to hear back in May. And that is to lean into what they described as a constructive relationship of strategic stability. There are plenty of China analysts who believe that President Xi would benefit from a more stable relationship in order to pursue his own economic as well as technological goals. Now, as part of that, the official paper said that the two should consider that Taiwan independence is a common enemy. It says of both the US and China. And it slammed what it described as erroneous US perceptions of China as a geopolitical rival. Now, all of this is highlighting the expectations that President Xi is going to press President Trump to potentially weaken language around Taiwan and island that Beijing claims as its own and also building on President Xi's very direct, if you remember, back in May, a warning to President Trump that crossing China's red line on Taiwan could lead to a conflict. Now, on terms of the business delegation that potentially could be traveling with President Xi, the foreign ministry said that it currently has no information on who might be coming. And in fact, it looks more and more likely, more again, that there may not be any CEOs or any Chinese businesses that will be traveling with President Xi from certain sources that I've spoken to. They said that the Chinese have been somewhat put off by the lack of information they were getting and the lack of reassurances that they were getting from the US side. And so those invitations from the foreign, from the commerce ministry weren't actually issued for many of those Chinese companies. Doesn't necessarily mean that no one will show up because it looks as though there are some Chinese CEOs who are in the vicinity of DC and might end up showing up at the end of the day. We'll see. That's super interesting. I'm just curious, Eunice, because we do also know we're reporting this on the show yesterday that the founder of Deepseek is going to be one of those AI CEOs, one of those AI executives that briefs the United Nations today as well. When you look back over history, I think it's been a couple years since we've seen one of these summits here in the US like this. But have we seen business delegations on the Chinese side take part in the past? No, it's very unusual for President Xi to travel with the business delegation. So when this first had come up that he might be traveling with Chinese companies, it was seen as really unusual and potentially a sign and highlight of which companies would be seeking to do more business in the US. There have been a lot of different rumors and reports of companies mainly in the automotive industry that would be interested to expand their business, such as BYD such as CATL, which is a battery company. So we'll see whether or not it actually pans out that way, but as of right now, the signals just based on the invites and the possibility of getting a visa so quickly at this stage, it's looking as though if anything, it might be a downsized delegation. All right, we'll be watching. Unisune, thank you for teeing it all up for us from Beijing. Great to have you on. We are going to have more on President Trump and Xi's meeting and the AI factor of it all. When we speak with Congressman George White's eyes, that's going to be coming up a bit later this hour. He's been early to this entire conversation debate and possible legislative action when it comes to pacing the frontier, so a lot to get into there. Let's keep the conversation going right now, though, what it all means for investors, what it means for the markets. Let's bring in Ben Emmons. Chief Investment Officer and Founder at FedWatch Advisors. Great to have you here on set. I mean, there's no shortage of news to start September here. Start fall. Start fall, yes. So I guess maybe we just start right there because what we have seen in the markets and the equity market specifically has been this bifurcation. It's been AI versus everything else. And even when you go under the hood on AI, there's been a lot of dispersion there too. How to think about what we're seeing in terms of breadth and what it says about the economic state, not only of the US but of the world. I think that the AI trade has sort of reinvigorated because I think people realize that as much as we may get some kind of regulation, actually, that's a bullet story. But if it gets more regulated, you don't get these rogue issues. In addition, that the economy could use the firm, as Jack have a war set the other day, if you have an accelerated environment of growth, then growth companies do the best. And I think this is why it picked up. Again, again, you get the individual stories of meta and all these other things. And then over there is the development about what will now really happen between the US and Iran and the fact in oil prices and that link there in order that the correlation between tech and oil is very negative. So that's also not a catalyst, I think, that if oil starts to decline, you're going to get more lifted markets. Yeah, I'm going to have this entire conversation, though, as we have seen, you just mentioned meta. It's a good example. You've seen the shift in the business models and the spend for these biggest companies as they do deploy this AI infrastructure and this compute power on the one hand, on the other, the Fed just hiked interest rates again. And yes, oil prices are coming down, but we're still at these elevated levels. This feels like an unusual market in general to me right now. And I'd be curious your thoughts as somebody who's been doing all this a lot longer. Yeah. So the Fed has had the obviously big impact. But I think what the Fed did right was put the message out saying, we're going to get to replace the target, but we're not just going to slam the brakes on it. We're going to do this in a deliberate way. And markets like that, it's predictable. It becomes more like something that you can see coming along without having this surprise. The certainty matters more than the actual hike. Yeah. And I think the other day was thinking about it's becoming a market more of certainty. The people are investing based on certainty as opposed to did buying or like where you have uncertainty, because that's what the previous psychology was. So I think if you have a market where things are not too surprising, then I think you only lift higher from here. In addition, the AI trade just gets this boost, because people are looking at it. If this is a certain market, then growth will be certain and high growth companies benefit. Yeah. And we've had quite a bit of Fed speak this week. And we're going to have more before, you know, Friday's done here. And yes, it's been hawkish in nature, but part of the conversation from Fed officials we have heard from has been the fact that underlying this is still a solid economy and that in turn has been contributing to the inflation picture too, the demand piece of it. When I hear Steve said you're reporting about flash PMIs in Europe being much stronger than anticipated, is this a US specific story, or is this, or is this a story that we're seeing export globally as well? It's a global story because as much as oil has that impact everywhere, I think what's happening is an industrial cycle that picked up everywhere because we do continue to have to import a lot for this AI build out, which Germany has in one example benefits from. But it's also about a story I think that the investment cycle picks up everywhere because the AI is everywhere. It's not only in the Internet, it's like a US unique story. So I think these PMI data indicate that it's an export story obviously. Europe is very much driven by export growth, but it's also about that investments are happening too. They lack the AI cycle and they're realizing that. So I think that's what it's about. Yeah AI and defense spending too. Defense spending. Correct. All right, Ben M. It's great to have you around set to kick off the hour. Appreciate it. Thank you. All right, we got a lot more to come here on morning call including touched on it. But oil falling back below 100 bucks a barrel falling below 90 bucks a barrel. If you're looking at the WTI contract and the price of gasoline and diesel doing something for the first time in several weeks, plus we're breaking down the market's views problem and the basket of stocks facing fresh pressures as the meta AI agent tops the download charts through very busy hours still heading morning call returns. Welcome back to morning call. We're watching the price of crude oil WTI briefly falling below 90 bucks a barrel. Basically flirting at that level. First time in weeks Brent Blake breaking below 100 dollars a barrel with the global benchmark riding its longest daily losing streak since August of last year. We're down six sessions in a row and as you can see right there on your screen prices right now WTI trading rate around 90 and Brent crude 99 dollars and 50 cents. Well the downside moves are coming after the US and Iran yesterday held their first talks since June characterized by the president as quote very good. Meanwhile China Xi Jinping preparing for his state visit with Trump that starts today and Saudi Arabia looks to restart its damaged east west pipeline in the coming days. We've got reports that it's up and running and as oil prices continue to fall prices at the pump are starting to make their way lower to a little bit price for a gallon of regular according to AAA. This is the national average. It's down a fraction of a penny today same with a price of diesel. Now a hair under its all time record. Well joining me now is Paul Sanky founder and lead analyst at Sanky Research. It's great to have you on the show a lot to get to here. Perhaps I will start with just the mad moves we've seen in WTI crude and in the oil market in general we had a huge spike we've been coming down pretty aggressively right now does the move make sense. Yeah I mean I think the big one to highlight as you said is that these all prices that the pump are still very close to their all time high but we've seen crude prices falling quite a lot and that speaks to the problem that we've got here which is a refining problem and then what you're going to see is the crude price is essentially a limited demand range you know the refineries are running at full capacity and so whether or not all moves are sending out a lot of oil or very little oil that's almost all crude and you've got to remember that of course the state of hormones was previously a major exporter of oil products which is what we need but at the moment the changes that we're seeing in the military geopolitical situation in hormones are the ones that are driving the price of crude and that's really just manifesting itself in wider and wider refining margins as such it's not making much difference to pump prices and of course as you know that's leading to a talk of a product export ban here in the US which is terrifying everybody that's that owns refineries and of course over choose for peace that we're seeing very clearly at the UN this week. Yeah I mean the the product export ban is really gaining ground here and even President Trump weighed in on it yesterday I think raised some eyebrows with that you know it's spoken to interior secretary Doug Bergen at the G20 Energy Conference last week on camera about that and he had said hey look you know we have examples in the LNG market just going back a couple of years ago where you had a pause on LNG exports and that that actually did not help the price of LNG at the time natural gas at the time it actually did had opposite impact and led to a dearth of investment and the like as well. What would a product ban short term or long term do to this entire conversation? Well it would bring down for pump prices which is why you know we're talking about politicians here and short term gains you know they don't care about the long term implications the long term implications would be terrible you know essentially as you know China banned product exports Russia banned product exports next thing you know in Washington they're saying hey we should do it too and you're like you know do you really think about that when you think about who's doing the bans so the US is really frived to an unbelievable extent from the development of oil and gas in this country entirely through the free market and you know as a result of that we've become a superpower in oil and gas and as a result of that what 30-40 years ago would have been a complete catastrophe for the US which would be the situation in the straight before moves this time simply hasn't been because we've actually been the marginal exporter of oil and gas so to mess around with that would be long term a disaster and what you really need is more refineries and of course by banning exports and messing around at the margin even threatening a ban you effectively disaccentivize further refining investment so there's a lot of long-term reasons why this is a terrible idea but of course in the short term what can you do it's going to bring down prices I think we remain because rights secretary energy secretary rights and as you said in theory a secretary burger a very vocal on the record to say it's a bad idea I think on balance it remains less likely to happen but then you've got Scott Besson and President Trump who arguably are both more powerful saying the opposite so I think I think I kind of fear for the worst with this one but we'll have to wait and see it's um it's basically going to have a major disruptive effect because you have too much diesel in the Gulf Coast area where all the refineries are and the export ban would cause a lot of problems moving that these all to where you need it which would be places like California and the East Coast which are already maxed out in terms of how much our infrastructure can carry up there so it would be a hugely distorting effect and I really hope that they don't make this mistake. Okay if we look around the world right now I mean there's a lot of focus on the East West pipeline restoration there and reports that that that is flowing again but the refinery piece of it to your point has been a global story and whether it is in the Middle East or whether it is in um this Russia Ukraine war right now you've seen a lot of capacity come offline and get damaged in conflicts there so what is it going to take to see more capacity globally come online in general do we have any sort of sense of how extensive some of these damages have been? Well I think you know to answer the question immediately the answer is obviously no more war and as we see these uh say for example a petrolite in the East West pipeline come back uh we mustn't forget that we're still in a active war zone and those are pretty renegative attacks you know the Saudi petrolite shut down by shears have sheer militias in Iraq supported by Iran you know it's quite compiluted and it's not sure how much power anyone really has over those guys for example President Trump meeting the Iranians yesterday we all know that that's not the guy with the power you know that's not the people that make the final decision that he's meeting there and so there's a real uncertainty here in terms of when they put their mind to it can they fix this stuff yeah there's a proven track record in Russia and in Saudi absolutely in the UAE building a bi-poss a further bi-poss pipeline these things can be done very quickly but even in an active war zone but of course the active war zone also deteriorates the situation depending on what happens you know are we gonna get peace I think that there's a level of military exhaustion here in fact you can argue that the US the more or less left the Middle East region as we should in my opinion to itself you know because of our oil and gas position domestically here we don't need to be involved in these infinite wars in the Middle East anymore yeah um you know so the potential is there I think for both the Iranians and the US and the Gulf the GCC Gulf Arabs to be exhausted by this situation for it to sort of dribble away as an ongoing conflict I hope that's what happens but of course as I said with these militias like the Houthis like the ones in Iraq it's very hard to actually know how much control anybody has over these guys and see the risk remains right what they're doing with the oil I think is more of a hurting kind of approach where they take so many tankers through that only a couple get attacked it's hardly a satisfactory solution it adds a lot of cost to the oil it's about 25 dollars a barrel to move oil from Saudi to China right now because tanker is before the conflict that would be under two dollars a barrel so it's you know 10 times more expensive now and of course you know 25 dollars a barrel is a lot when it's just the transport cost that's interesting and of course a lot of the oil that was going to China was discounted Iranian oil too so um just finally quickly Paul how does China factor into all this especially as we do look to Washington for this summit this week well I always thought felt when this went badly wrong in the first place because it clearly went very badly wrong from the moment the Iatola was assassinated uh the President Trump should have immediately gone to China and made a deal with President Xi who really is the one that has some kind of control over the Iranians but in fact he delayed his first trip and on the second trip they didn't really seem to address warm news I'm hopeful maybe this time around both as I said with exhaustion setting in here as we're in seven eight months into the crisis that the Chinese want this thing solved as well and hopefully something positive will come out of the Xi Trump summit I think they should really focus on warm news above all in terms of the agreements that the two companies countries make okay Paul thank you appreciate it thank you all right straight ahead soft banks masa son looks to make investing history we've got that full story coming up but first let's watch shares of six flags higher in the pre-market following a report that activist investor janna partners is calling on the theme park operator to explore a possible sale shares are up three percent but they are down roughly 42 percent over the past year the latest red flag coming last month when the company reported a wider than expected net loss more you call be right back we've got a marketplace for you on ionq those shares are surging pre-market after the quantum company announced the development of the industry's first end and real-time quantum error correction decoder and it operates on a single standard CPU chip why this matters quantum error correction is essential for building practical fault tolerant quantum computers and then running it on a single CPU provides a path to commercial scale quantum computing this is something we spoke to CEO Nikola Dimasi about a couple weeks ago well other one can see shares of ionq are about 11.5 percent right now on this news but it's also pulling other pure pure play quantum company stocks higher names like regetti d wave quantum computing are all jumping in response to this report as well well let's get a check on some of the morning's latest headlines qualcomm unveiling its newest android chipset speaking of chips at the snap dragon summit last night positioning phones running it's high and chips as quote ai hubs CEO christiano amon will talk more about that when he joins cmbc later today in a first on cmbc interview that's in power lunch and china reportedly probing the use of broadcom chips and its state-backed ai data centers as part of its push to boost domestic ai manufacturing and reduce reliance on foreign ai tech well soft thank you see shares of broadcom down about half a percent soft back soft bank kicking off what's said to be one of the largest junk bond sales in history looking to raise roughly eleven billion dollars marketing dollar bonds with yields ranging from eight point seven five percent to as much as nine point eight percent the offering aims at helping fund its investments in what else ai you can see soft bank shares are down about one percent we're also watching shares a kby home the company lowering its annual gross margin outlook and full your sales outlook citing worsening housing sector conditions those shares are down right now and florida private passenger railroad bright line is reportedly in the final stages of restructuring some of its debt via a chapter eleven bankruptcy filing that could come as soon as this week the filing would exclude bright lines operating unit which would allow it to keep running trains instead focusing on restructuring about one point one billion dollars worth of corporate debt passenger rail private passenger rail tough business keep an eye there still on deck what to expect when in top ai bosses head to the united nations today morning call we'll be right back i'm working brother welcome back to morning call let's get a check on us stock futures which are in the green this morning fractional moves though s and p points to open up nine points the doubt thirty seven points and the nasdaq five points were basically covering just below the flat line it was after a mix trading session yesterday that saw the nasdaq close at a record high the debate around ai and the technology safety taking center stage at the u n general assembly today open a i c o c i maltman and thropic ceo dario omiday are expected to be among the ai leaders that brief the group's security council on the risks posed by the technology now during his address to the u n yesterday president trump who is repeatedly downplayed warnings around ai condemning the idea of a global entity to oversee it the technology is expected to be a key topic of conversation at the president's meeting with chinese president she's in ping who arrives in washington later today but for more on all of it let's bring in congressman george white sides at democrat from california serves on the house subcommittee on cyber information technologies and innovation he's also recently wrote an op ed in the washington post calling for a one month safety stand down on frontier a i research to establish a regulatory safety standards congressman it's great to have you on the show welcome to you i i do want to start right there what what are you proposing and why is it so important right now given the fact that ai is front and center uh in the conversation not only domestically but geopolitically good morning more than it's good to be on and uh you know i think it's crazy that um the leaders of these ai companies are testifying before uh the security council before they've done a full testimony in front of the u s congress i've called for a one month safety stand down uh based on my aerospace experience where we say look uh when we have an accident or an anomaly in aerospace what we do is we stop flying uh we try to understand what happened we put down in writing what we're going to do to prevent that from happening again and then we return to flight and that has not really happened in a public uh way here in uh ai and that's i think what we need to do during that time we need to look at the red lines that the industry will follow as they pursue this developments uh in recursive self-improvement yeah uh and and for folks that maybe are are to me and but don't know um you were the chief of staff at nasa back in the day you and i have known each other um for quite a while as well you were also the CEO of virgin galactic took that company public at the time too so when you talk about leaning on the findings the lessons the framework of aerospace what would a month one month stand down actually entail is that just a pause in terms of development and release of new models and focusing on what exists in the marketplace already is it something different no it's exactly that look i mean you're Gemini or your chat with keep working you know the consumer versions of these things but what you hear from really thousands of researchers who are inside these companies is a very deep concern about where this is going how fast it's going and the risks it post to the public what we really need to do is to enable those folks to talk to each other uh to come together in a room with independent experts as well and to really talk through what's going to happen next and i think a lot of people feel scared because they don't feel like anybody's really in charge and certainly these words from president trump where he calls AI uh a hoax is not reassuring anyone i think you've seen that in the polling basically the public doesn't trust the white house on these issues and so we need to get everybody in a room take a pause get the get things straight before we keep moving forward on the frontier models i think some of the argument coming out of the administration right now has been that there are some rules and regulations already in place and that perhaps it's not the role of the government right now given the competition with china this is the way it's being framed to regulate but rather it's up to the companies and the industries themselves hence no need for a liability shield as treasury secretary besant said on cnbc earlier this week yeah i mean look Morgan I've heard that argument and i do think that i've constructed this one month pause because we are sensitive to the concerns around the lead that we have over our chinese counterparts but you know with the chemical industry or the aerospace industry we don't rely on the companies to design you know everything themselves in terms of how they're going to keep themselves safe we have regulation and there is no doubt that these technologies have amazing capability to improve human life and you know career diseases other things like that but there's also no debate that these things could wreak havoc in terms of cyber security potentially um you know design of new novel bio weapons and all these other things so we have to get on top of it and i've put forward one idea i think look the main thing is that we have to have to like sort of think about it and engage on it as a as a combined government and industry uh community because the american people deserve no less so in light of everything we're seeing on the geopolitical stage this week whether it's general assembly whether it is this trump she meeting down in washington today and tomorrow um what are you watching for what are your expectations in terms of the global dialogue around AI well i think the um summit between the us president and the chinese uh leader is very important it will be very interesting to see if there's anything substantive that comes out of that obviously there's a little bit of a food fight going on inside the administration right now between pure accelerationists and folks who do want to exercise some amount of um at least oversight over the AI industry we'll see what comes out of that i do think the interaction between china and the us is very important because that is the you know arms raised dynamic that we have going on and so my hope is that the chinese as well as the americans can come together to to do this safety standout and and to give the american people and the chinese people some measure of reassurance that the government is on top of it yeah so in light of all of this i'm going to ask you a question i'm asking every lawmaker that comes on on our show uh now and that is what can get done in congress between now and the end of the year well that's why it's so disappointing that the speaker has um basically taken us out of off the playing field through the election um i do think it is conceivable that we do something after we get back from the election the lame duck session there are uh folks on both sides of the aisle who would like to do that we'll see what the final form contains there's a wide variety of bills including several that i've introduced uh on a i safety and i think we'll just have to come back and try to hit the ground running um i think it's crazy that we're not in Washington dc right now working on these issues as well as costs but uh that's not um very different from the rest of this congress so far yeah we could have a whole separate conversation on the affordability piece of it and i hope we will congressman George white sides it's great to have you on the show i appreciate it and i believe we're going to see each other in person a little later today for this ex-price foundation in just a few hours wildfire event too so i look forward to that great to have you here we got a lot more to come here on morning call including metamuse risks the sectors and stocks that are taking a hit on worries around the latest ai agent morning call is right back ahead of metastconnect event today it's new muse ai agent is creating a new problem for a big basket of stocks what Goldman Sachs calls the consumer inertia sector with muse able to shop compare prices book travel and handle customer service tasks for users it could potentially make it much easier to switch providers or to cancel services and wall street is already repricing that risk in yesterday's trade alone planet fitness following nine and a half percent lpl financial down seven and a half uh the new york times often more than that seven percent shwab losing six percent all state down five and a half percent as well we've got some sizable moveers for even bigger players with names like japan warrigan wals Fargo and booking holdings all coming off sharply lower trading sessions look on the thread here these businesses benefit when customers don't shop around making loyalty or at least laziness a lot less profitable from the Goldman trading desk it's quote consumer inertia basket is now down more than a seven percent in six sessions the bank now warning clients that telecoms streaming and utilities maybe the sectors to watch for another leg lower we'll see we'll return to prediction markets the wall street journal reporting that the cftc is examining potentially unusual trading activity on calcium this after the journal citing analysis of public data says nearly one million ether perpetual futures trades occurred in almost identical amounts of around fifty five hundred dollars a piece accounting for more than five billion dollars of volume over the past month the paper says that the pattern has prompted allegations of wash trading which involves trades creating a misleading impression of market activity now in a blog post calcium said it's seen no evidence of wash trading and that the practice is explicitly banned in its rule book a note CNBC and calcium have a commercial relationship that includes a customer acquisition and a minority investment well straight ahead we got the morning call crew seeing up the trading day ahead why one member says fears around AI they're simply overblown we're gonna keep diving into that debate we're back in just a moment welcome back it's time for your call sheet where we look at the topics driving the trading day ahead well the crew members today Paul Hickey of bespoke investment groups Sarah Bianchi of Evercore ISI and a former deputy US trade rep and don't a dog bone apart of bonafide wealth also CNBC financial advisor council member all right we have a lot to talk about I feel so that every day but dog I'm gonna kick this up with you because one of the things we have been talking about particularly in the in the last half hour of the show has been what we're seeing in AI in the re-ignition of the AI trade especially as we look to the metacannet events tonight what are you watching yeah so we're still seeing new things pop up in AI just when you think hey this rally is done here we are extending and I think that's going to continue for quite a bit longer right so volatility a feature excuse me a feature not a bug and you know if you're looking long into the future how is how are you not placing some bet here on AI you're just gonna have to deal with the volatility as you get there you know we just talked about it before the break Paul but just the the wide spread selling we've seen across sectors in anticipation of what AI agents starting with meta are going to deal you think it's overblown why so I mean I think fears of AI you know taking over or overblown I think there's still lots of room for improvement as Doug was just saying we continue to see improvement with each successive model which is a positive I don't necessarily know who the winner of ultimately from AI is going to be this week everyone's putting their bets on meta next week it could be anthropic again then open AI or rock who knows at this point but what I am pretty confident is is we each successive model has shown improvement based on the different benchmark tests that we have and it's up and to the right and that justifies further investment in the sector and the key beneficiaries there are going to be semiconductors and memory stocks so I think those are the two sectors to watch this is a tech driven AI bull market that we've been in for four years and if you think this bull market's going to continue those are the two sectors I think you should be focusing on here yeah and to your point we get an open AI event next week expectations we could get an agent release there too Sarah this is not just in focus here for the markets it's in focus for politicians we just talked to a representative white sides about this and it's in focus for world leaders too look no further than the UN Security Council and briefings we're going to get from AI entrepreneurs today absolutely I think this really elevated at least in Washington last week around reports of the real safety concerns that exist and I think it is a place where both Republicans and Democrats are concerned we see a lot of action in the states we saw President Trump sort of after calling it a hoax pivot a little bit to being potentially having the news are and other things so I think they are reading the T-leaves at the White House too there's a lot of concern here about what to do I'm not saying it's going to slow down the momentum that we're all talking about but I think you're going to see some guardrails as we go forward what do you think that looks like as we see President Trump and she meet over the next couple of days is AI Sarah going to be one of those meaningful takeaways or is it something else that's that's going to matter more well we have said that what we expect on AI from the summit is really just more dialogue and that's what I think Secretary Besson signaled over the weekend so I don't think we're expecting much but more conversations although at least that is some promising signs I'm not sure we're getting a lot of big deliverables out of this summit across the board I think the meeting itself is a lot of the message and there are a lot of underlying strains going on rare earths the United States really doesn't feel China has kept it's end of the bargain so a lot to watch in the next couple of days you know I think rare earth I was looking at some data earlier this week where it's out of you know exported out of China have actually dropped ahead of the summit Doug what would be a deliverable for the market here is it an extension of this if we want to call it a truce and not sure if we do a trade truce yeah that's a really good point about this meeting speaking volumes more than really anything else the two countries as far as their competition with AI is concerned I mean neither one wants to lose this race so I really don't think we're gonna see any slowing down as far as trade is concerned I'm not so sure I'm not one but we'll see the AI trade or at least these two countries fight for supremacy when it comes to AI yeah Paul what are you watching in the midst of all this and what does it mean for companies and their stocks U.S. companies you know I mean I think I don't think like Sarah was saying I don't think there's gonna be a whole lot of deliverables here I don't put too much focus on these UN General Assembly meetings each year I think it's a lot of just uh you know talk and no action that we tend to see so we're just focusing more on what what the market is saying here we're in a lull period as far as there's no earnings coming up but the fact is we've had this summer slowdown or summer CESDA in the market here and the NASDAQ is just you know as we get into fall it's just starting to break out of that range we've been in for the last three and a half months and I think that's a positive trend that you see the key here is interest rates remaining contained I think as long as we can keep the tenure under this five percent or right around five percent or lower I think that's should be a positive tailwind for stocks but if we do see rates start to continue to accelerate above five percent that's gonna be problematic for the market. Yeah summer CESDA I like that although from a news flow perspective it did not feel very CESDA-ish to me um but Sarah you know the other it's everything's interconnected right so I'm curious your assessment of dynamics in the middle east right now what's being interpreted in the markets at least the oil markets as a potential diplomatic thought here between the US and Iran and how a country like China is going to factor into all of that. Well I think that the president is doing everything in his power to send out the message that there is going to be a diplomatic thought um I think he will also try to use the meeting with China to act as if they are going to be more of an ally here but the reality is that the bid ask between the United States and Iran is still too far apart right now so we could have a well in the action which would be good for the markets but we still don't have a path to a resolution here. Dog your thoughts I see you make a faces here nodding. We go back and forth you know in ten year above or below five percent oil above or below a hundred right that seems to be the reoccurring theme back and forth markets like it when it's below markets don't like it when it's above and you know hey if you're trading volatility maybe there's an opportunity here but it's getting tired I think you know I you look at earnings they look good I like the AI trade there are things beyond this that still look good that are carrying the market here we just get very absorbed in those headlines here and I don't know when it's going to end I want to tend but yeah well maybe after the midterms that's what they said yesterday again um Paul look under the hood on the S&P um and to your point we you know AI trade has been kicking off here and and re rallying but you look at some of the other more economically sensitive sectors within the market we're seeing some signs of weakness financials case in point some of the consumer stocks on a day where we're focused on McDonald's in investor day your thoughts quickly you know I think what we've seen you to your point Brett has been very weak but um you know a lot of concern over that but historically large declines in Brett haven't necessarily been a real worrying signal for the market when you've you know looking forward so it I think it's good that the indexes held up even with some deterioration under the surface all right it's great to have all of you here thank you our morning call crew